## CS465 Portfolio

### Architecture
- For this project, an Angular front-end Single Page Application, an Express HTML application, a JavaScript backend and API controller, and a NoSQL MongoDB was used. The Angular front-end SPA was for the admin-only site and included functionality to login, logout, update and add trips to the Travlr database. It needed to be able to dynamically and quickly load and refresh so the SPA allowed it to do this. 
- The Express HTML front-end was for the client site that allowed users to view all trips that were available and book trips as well. 
- A JavaScript API controller was used to connect the Angular admin site to the backend as well as JavaScript backend service to connect to the database.
- A NoSQL MongoDB was used for storing the data. It was used since for the structure of MongoDB entires, it is easier to convert to JSON since objects are stored like a file system so it is easier to create, read, update, and delete objects from the JavaScript backend.

### Functionality
- JavaScript is a programming language. JSON is an object notation. JSON is used to pass objects back and forth between the front end an backend. For instance, in the Angular application, a TypeScript object is converted to JSON, then passed as a JSON object to the API controller in the backend which is able to take the JSON object and interact with the MongoDB. It also works the other way, when retrieving data from the database, it is converted to a JSON object and then sent to the front-end where it can be deserialized into a TypeScript object. 
- One instance where the code was refactored to provide more functionality was in the NavBar component. At first, the built-in, static NavBar was used, however I wanted this to house different links to the trips list and to login/logout so a NavBar component was created and it was able to include links to the trips list as well as the login/logout components. 
- A benefit to using components is that they are easily reusable and can be placed on any page where they are necessary. For instance, if I wanted, I could've placed the "add trip" component on multiple different places within the admin only site, and the only code I would have had to add is <add-trip-component></add-trip-component> and then it would have shown up on the screen right where I placed it. Also, for the trip cards, each one didn't have to be coded separately, the same template with an object mapped to the card could be used to cut down on the amount of code that was needed to make the trip cards.

### Testing
- When testing with adding security into the application, it became a bit more tricky to test the PUT and POST endpoints for addTrip and updateTrip since they would throw a 401 unauthorized error if a bearer token was not sent with them. So in order to test these, I had to create a username and password, then login, and then take the token that was given after login and send that in the header as authorization for these endpoints.
- For each other endpoint, either Postman could be used to hit them directly, which was used when initially testing them to make sure that they were functioning, and then they could also be hit from the front end by making a call to the back-end endpoint. For instance, when logging in, A user would type their information into the form and hit submit. This would then be sent through the authentiation service to the backend login endpoint, which would check the database and make sure that the user had entered in the correct information. This would in turn return the authorization token back to the front end, which then could be used for further requests when the bearer token was needed for PUT or POST requests, for instance.

### Reflection
- I currently am working as a Software Engineer and have been for the last year, now, after graduating from a coding bootcamp and getting a job in the field. So, this class, in addition to the CS degree is helping me to become a more knowledgable and well-rounded engineer overall.
- Though I currently am a full-stack developer, the tech stack I normally work on is different than the MEAN stack that we used in this course, so this class has exposed me to another tech stack so that if I ever am looking elsewhere and they use this tech stack or even part of it, I will have some experience working in it, so it's added more tools to my developer's toolbox. 
